<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-13" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIII</h2>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Stott combined the implacable qualities of the feudal lord with an amiable leaning toward the society and approval of his fellow men. There was a café near his office which was extensively patronized by grave business men, directors, bank managers and superior cashiers. The price of luncheon had been scientifically fixed by the proprietor, so that whilst it was within the means of men of substance and standing, it was just beyond the reach of those whose limited incomes did not permit the luxury of lunching at Toby’s, though it was well worth the money to sit at meat with men who had offices labelled “private” and drove to their business in polished limousines.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Stott referred to the wistful folk who passed the door of Toby’s to be swallowed up in less exclusive establishments, as the hoi polloi, which he understood was an Italian expression. Toby’s had almost acquired the status of a club. Occasionally, ignorant strangers wandered in to test the gastronomical excellence of the kitchen, and these were usually accommodated in obscure corners away from the hearing of intimate gossip.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Stott had recently become a person to be listened to with respect, and the necessity for keeping the regular patrons of Toby’s aloof from the vulgar herd, was doubly urgent by reason of the very important matters that had to be discussed.</p>
			<p>“What I can’t understand, Stott,” said one of his hearers, “is why the devil didn’t you send for the police?”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Stott smiled mysteriously.</p>
			<p>“The police should have been there,” he said, “and by-the-way, I need not remind you fellows that what I say to you is in absolute confidence. I am scared out of my life lest that babbling servant of mine starts talking. You can never trust these gossiping girls. I confess, though, that I had half a mind, not to send for the police, but to tackle the Chinks myself. I should have done it, too, but the girl was so frightened of being left alone.”</p>
			<p>“Have they come since?” asked another interested hearer.</p>
			<p>“No; nor the woman⁠—you remember that I told you of the woman who used to drive up to Mayfield every night in her car?”</p>
			<p>“It seems to me that the police ought to know,” interrupted the first speaker. “One of your servants is bound to talk. As you say, you can’t trust ’em! And then the authorities will want to know why you haven’t reported the matter.”</p>
			<p>“It is not my business,” said <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Stott pharisaically, “It is for the police to get busy. I’m not at all surprised that the coroner’s jury made the remark they did. Here is a man murdered⁠—”</p>
			<p>He exhibited the crime graphically.</p>
			<p>“At any rate, I’m keeping out of it⁠—these Chinese criminals are dangerous fellows to monkey with.”</p>
			<p>He had paid his bill and was walking out of the café, when somebody touched him on the arm, and he swung round to see a tall, melancholy and long faced man.</p>
			<p>“Excuse me; <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Stott, I believe?”</p>
			<p>“That is my name. I haven’t the pleasure⁠—”</p>
			<p>“My name is Carver⁠—I am an Inspector of Police, and I want you to tell me something about what was seen outside of Mayfield, both before and after the murder.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Stott’s face fell.</p>
			<p>“That servant of mine has been talking,” he said annoyed. “I knew she couldn’t keep her mouth shut.”</p>
			<p>“I know nothing about your servant, sir,” said Carver, sadly, “but I have been sitting in Toby’s for the past three days and I have heard quite a lot. It sounded to me almost as if you were the principal speaker on the subject, but maybe I was mistaken.”</p>
			<p>“I shall say nothing,” said <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Stott firmly, and the detective sighed.</p>
			<p>“I shouldn’t hurry to make up my mind on that subject if I were you,” he said, “it is certain to be a difficult business explaining to the Public Prosecutor why you have kept silence so long⁠—it looks very suspicious, you know, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Stott.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Stott was aghast.</p>
			<p>“Suspicious⁠—me⁠—Good heavens! Come to my office, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Carver⁠—suspicious! I knew I should be dragged into it! I’ll fire Eline tonight!”</p>
			<p>When Tab in the course of duty, called that night at the station, he heard the story from Carver.</p>
			<p>“If the poor nut had only had the pluck to telephone to the police when the girl first told him the story, we could have caught those birds. As it is, there’s no sense in keeping the house under observation any longer. Who was the woman? That puzzles me. Who was the woman who, night after night, garaged her car in Trasmere’s garden and let herself into the house carrying a square black bag?”</p>
			<p>Tab did not answer. The identity of the woman was no mystery to him. She was Ursula Ardfern.</p>
			<p>The fabric of supposition fitted piece to piece. He remembered how he had come upon her in the deserted streets at dawn surveying a burst tyre and the plainness of her dress. Inside the car was a square black case, but⁠—</p>
			<p>Ursula working hand in glove with Chinamen; Ursula privy to these stealthy coming and goings, these midnight burglaries at Mayfield? That was unthinkable.</p>
			<p>“⁠—their reason for breaking in after we had left the place is beyond me,” Carver was saying. “I can only suppose that they hoped that we had overlooked something of value.”</p>
			<p>“In Mayfield?⁠—there is nothing there now?”</p>
			<p>“Only the furniture and one or two articles we took away but have since returned, such as the green lacquer box. As a matter of fact, they only went back yesterday. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Lander thought of selling all the furniture and effects by auction, and I believe that before he left he put the matter in the hands of an agent. The Chinamen intrigue me,” he said, “though it is by no means certain that both Stott and his servant aren’t mistaken. I gather they were considerably panic stricken and even I wouldn’t undertake to distinguish a Chinaman from a European by the light of a match.”</p>
			<p>Tab went up into Carver’s private office, and they sat talking until close on eleven o’clock, at which hour their conversation was violently interrupted by the ring of the telephone.</p>
			<p>“Call through for you, sir,” said the voice of the sergeant on the desk, and a second later Carver recognised the agitated voice of <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Stott.</p>
			<p>“They’re here now! They’ve just gone in! The woman has opened the door⁠—they’ve just gone in!”</p>
			<p>“Who? Is that Stott⁠—do you mean into Mayfield?” asked Carver quickly.</p>
			<p>“Yes! I saw them with my own eyes. The woman’s car is outside the door.”</p>
			<p>“Go and get its number, quick,” said Carver sharply, “find a policeman and tell him, and if you can’t find one, detain the woman yourself.”</p>
			<p>He heard <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Stott’s feeble expostulation, and jumped for his hat.</p>
			<p>They boarded the first taxicab they could find, and raced through the town at a breakneck pace, turning into one end of the quiet avenue in which Mayfield was situated, just as the tail lights of a car turned the corner at the other end.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Stott was standing on the sidewalk, pointing dumbly, but with hysterical gestures, at the place where the car had been.</p>
			<p>“They’ve gone,” he said hollowly. “⁠—couldn’t find a policeman: they’ve gone!”</p>
			<p>“So I notice,” said Carver. “Did you take the number of the car?”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Stott shook his head and made a choking noise in his throat. Presently he commanded his speech.</p>
			<p>“Covered over with black paper,” he said.</p>
			<p>“Who was it?”</p>
			<p>“A Chinaman and a woman,” said the other.</p>
			<p>“Why in hell didn’t you stop them?” snapped Carver.</p>
			<p>“A Chinaman and a woman,” repeated Stott miserably.</p>
			<p>“What was she like?”</p>
			<p>“I didn’t get near enough to see,” <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Stott made the confession without shame. “There ought to have been police here⁠—lots of police⁠—. It is disgraceful. I am going to write to the⁠—”</p>
			<p>They left him quivering threats. Carver ran across the concrete garden, unlocked the door and switched on all the lights in the hall. Nothing, so far as he could see, had been disturbed. The door to the vault was locked, and had not been tampered with. Apparently the dining-room had. The fireplace of the house was a broad deep cavity lined with red brick, and pointed with a yellow cement. An electric radiator had replaced the stove, and Carter had made a very thorough examination both of the recess and of the wide chimney above. But he saw at a glance that his inspection had been short of perfect. One of the bricks had been taken out. It lay on the table, with its steel lid open, and Carver surveyed it thoughtfully.</p>
			<p>“That is one on me,” he said. “It looks like the face of a brick, doesn’t it? Look at that artistic cement pointing all round the edge? It isn’t cement at all, but steel. In fact, this must be about the only secret drawer in the house. I ought to have made more thorough enquiries from the builders.”</p>
			<p>The box was empty except for a tiny rubber band. They found its fellow on the table.</p>
			<p>“There was something of importance in that box which has been taken out; probably a bundle of papers, more likely two bundles. The rubber bands suggest two. Anyway, they’re gone.”</p>
			<p>He glanced around the room.</p>
			<p>“And the green lacquer box has gone,” he said. “I know it was here, because I put it on the mantelshelf with my own hands.”</p>
			<p>He opened the door leading to the vault and satisfied himself that nobody had gained admission to the underground room.</p>
			<p>“We had better go along and see this police critic,” he said grimly.</p>
			<p>It appeared that he had done <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Stott an injustice, for greatly fearing, he had crossed the road whilst the people were in the house, and he had made honest attempts to find a policeman, having sent the toothachy Eline on that errand, which was successful, if the success was somewhat belated, for the policeman arrived with her whilst the Inspector was talking to the merchant.</p>
			<p>“I not only crossed the road,” said <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Stott, “but I went inside the garden. They must have seen me, for the light in the dining-room went out suddenly, and they came flying down the steps together.”</p>
			<p>“And passed you, of course?”</p>
			<p>“They did not pass me,” explained <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Stott emphatically, “because I was on the other side of the road before they were out of the gate. I do not think anything would have passed me.”</p>
			<p>“What was the woman like?” asked Carver again.</p>
			<p>“I have an idea she was young, but I did not see her face. She was dressed in black and as far as I could see, veiled. The other man was small; he only came up to her shoulder.”</p>
			<p>“That is that,” said Carver disconsolately, when they came away. “They ought to have been caught, if that man had the spunk of a rabbit. You are very silent, Tab⁠—what are you thinking?”</p>
			<p>“I am wondering,” said Tab truthfully, “just wondering.”</p>
			<p>“What are you wondering?” growled the other.</p>
			<p>“I am wondering whether old Trasmere was a much worse man than any of us imagine,” said Tab calmly.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
